>> Scott Moss: Here, we're gonna talk
about the schema definition language.
So in the client side course, we talked
more about the query language, which is,
we'll also do a lot of that today for
sure.
But this server side course is
specifically focused on the schema
definition language.
So what does it look like to
make a graphical schema and
everything that's involved?
So that's what we're gonna be doing today.
if you've built any schema in your life
whether it's a data base schema, some
frontend validation, this is gonna feel
very familiar, it's modeled after JSON and
java script so if you've written java
script it should feel pretty familiar.
This isn't gonna feel foreign,
honestly it feels like Typescript.
If you've ever written type script that's
what GraphQL schemas feel like to me.
They feel very much like TypeScript.
And in fact, there's tons of tooling that
will take a GraphQL schema and turn it to
TypeScript and vice versa, because
they're very similar in my opinion.
So we're gonna talk about that.
At the same time, as I talk about it, I
have a branch on the repo set up just for
us to go and apply some of these things
that I'm talking about as we do it.
So let's walk through how we start
that and get that set up, and
then we'll walk through
the schema definition linger.
So please follow along on this next part.
So check out to the server/demo branch,
it's a stripped down version of the repo.
If you've worked on the client-side
course, there were tons of files and
react Stuff in there.
This one's pretty bare bones, I'm just
gonna walk you through it right quick.
So we have an app directory,
this is a Next.js app, so
there's a app directory here.
But really only thing that we care
about is this api folder inside,
which has a graphql server, or
I'm sorry, a graphql folder inside.
And there's three files,
there's a resolvers, a route and a schema.
What we're gonna do as we walk through
some of the concepts of a graphql schema
is we're gonna be working
here in this schema file, and
we're gonna just kinda
play around with it.
So, one of the things we can
do is obviously start this.
So, npm run dev is
the command to start this.
>> Scott Moss: If you get an error trying
to start, be sure to do a npm install.
I went over at the beginning, that means
you didn't have the modules installed,
so make sure you do an empty install here.
But start the server,
it should put you on Mindsets Port 3
3,001 because I'm already on port 3,000.
So let me stop that and run it again.
There we go, I'm on 3,000 now, so
once you're there what you can do is,
you can go to the browser, go to 3,000.
You should just see a blank
page that says home.
That's fine,
we're not doing react right now but
you wanna go to /api/graphql.
And when you go here,
you might get an error, right?
And we're gonna talk about
why you get an error.
This is intentional, and this is showing
you just how specific GraphQL is.
So if you go to /api/graphql
in your browser,
you should get this error,
unexpected EOF end of file.
I think that's what that means,
so we're gonna fix this.
We're gonna go through, and
start talking about some of these types.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, so back to the notes.
First thing, type definitions.
What is the type definition?
Basically, it's literally the building
block of a GraphQL schema, or honestly,
really any schema.
You can think of a type in a GraphQL
schema as a table in a database,
that's the best way I can describe it.
It's not always gonna match one for one,
you might have tables in your database
that don't need GraphQL types.
You might have GraphQL types that
don't map to tables in a database.
Because you might not always be
using a database with GraphQL.
GraphQL doesn't care where your data comes
from, so it's not always a one for one.
But, if you're building a simple CRUD app,
yeah,
I would say your GraphQL types will
align pretty heavily with your tables.
Plus or minus some fields
like passwords or combining,
virtualizing one field into two fields,
or the opposite of things like that.
So let's talk about what makes up a type.
So we have something called
a scholar type, a scholar type, or
just primitive types in a programming
language, GraphQL has a few of them.
It has int for integer, so numbers,
floats which are decimals.
String, it's a string,
it's exactly what it sounds like.
Boolean is true or false, and then ID.
ID is literally the same thing,
it can be a number or a string,
but it just tells GraphQL
this is a unique value.
This is helpful for GraphQL tooling
that does caching on a frontend and
tries to resolve things by unique value.
So, but it basically just be any
value that is considered unique.
So those are scholar types,
and then we have object types.
So an object type is exactly
what it sounds like,
it's a more complicated type,
so it's not just one field, but
basically it is composed of other scholar
types and other object types, right?
So here's an example of a user
type that we're making.
It has an id whose type is ID,
this exclamation here means non null.
So this is very common in a database
where you can say, I have a field and
it cannot be null.
This is a required field, that's
what the exclamation means required.
If you don't have exclamation next to it,
it is not required.
That's gonna make a big
difference as we make a schema.
So in the case of post, what you see here
is, okay, I have a field called post.
It is type array, so it's gonna be an
array of another object type called post
that's not shown here, but
it does not have an exclamation mark,
which means this field is not required,
so it could be null.
So we're gonna dive
into this a little bit.
So let's go into our code,
go into the schema,
and we're going to make some things first.
So the first thing we need to do is,
and we're gonna make it first, and
I'll talk about it in a minute, is we
need to make what's called a query type.
What a capital Q, so
if you say type Query like this and
you kinda open it up like an object.
And quick note,
as you're writing this stuff,
if you don't get syntax highlighting or
things like that.
There are tons of plugins.
I'm using cursor, which is just a fork
of VS Code so it's the same thing.
There are tons of plugins you can
download that will give you the syntax
highlighting for GraphQL.
This comment that I'm using right here
inside this template string is telling my
editor that this is a GraphQL string and
that's how I'm getting
syntax highlighting you.
You should also have that comment there,
which will hint to your editor
that this is graphic QL, and
if you have the appropriate GraphQL
plugin, it'll highlight for you.
But if it doesn't highlight, that doesn't
mean it's not gonna change how it works.
It's still gonna work the same,
it just obviously doesn't look as good.
It's like writing code in Google Docs,
you don't wanna do that.
It'll work, but
probably don't wanna do it.
So that's how I got
the syntax highlighting.
And then what I'm gonna do here, we'll
talk about the query type a little bit,
but what I'm gonna do here is I'm
going to make an object type.
So let's do that, so
I'm gonna say type person.
It's an object type.
And then let's give the person a name,
which is a type string, okay?
>> Scott Moss: And then for us to get
rid of this era that we're having and
we can actually explore our schema.
We need to write one query type.
So what I'm gonna do here is I'm
gonna make something called me.
Make a query called me and
it returns a person like this, and
I'm just gonna hit Save.
>> Scott Moss: So
I made an object type called person.
It has a name field, which is type string.
And I'm actually gonna make that required,
so
I'm gonna put an exclamation next to it.
>> Scott Moss: And on the query type,
I made a field called me,
and I said its type is called person.
I'm also gonna make that an exclamation,
so
that means the me field on
query has to return a person.
If it doesn't return a person,
the server will blow up and
the person type must have
a field on it called name.
That's a type string, if it doesn't,
it will blow up, okay?
So that's a very simple
GraphQL schema there,
we go back to our browser,
go back to our app.
If we hit refresh,
you'll now see this whole app load up.
>> Scott Moss: So
why is it loading up now?
Why was it not loading up before?
We can talk about that.
>> Scott Moss: So if you go into
the route.ts file in the GraphQL folder,
this is actually where
we're making the schema.
Don't worry too much about what's going on
here, you're gonna do this from scratch in
a little bit, but
this is kinda where I make the server, and
the server cannot be created unless
there is at least one query type.
You can think of a query
type as like a Git request.
Unless you have one Git request route
to find in your GraphQL schema,
it will not boot.
It just won't work.
So once we made that it worked,
how do we actually get this app here?
There's no code, if you go look, there's
literally no code in here for this app.
So where does it coming from?
That's actually part
of the GraphQL schema,
this is a tool called Apollo Studio.
We're using an open source GraphQL
server framework called Apollo.
It's a company that
makes GraphQL tools and
they have built this app
called Apollo Studio.
You could think of it as like Postman or
Insomnia, but for GraphQL, and
it's built into your server.
You can turn it on, you can turn it off.
We have it turned on and
what it does is it runs an introspection
query to your GraphQL query.
It pulls down the entire schema, and
then it builds an app around it, and
it allows us to explore our schema.
So it's quite effective,
it's very similar if you did like it.
You can introspect SQL databases or
MySQL databases or
Postgres databases and see what
the schema is, it's the same thing.
This app introspects our server,
pulls down the schema, and
knows everything about it.
In fact, I can go here to click on
this button that says Schema and
I can see the documentation for
the schema that I just made.
So I can see I have a query type
called me, returns a required person.
I have an object type called person,
and I have some scholars here.
So if I click on the Object type person,
you can see that it has a name
field with a required string.
So I built all this for free,
we don't have to do anything.
And if I click on SDL here, I'll
actually see the schema that we wrote.
>> Scott Moss: So
that alone is just quite impressive.
Imagine if you were building
a developer facing product,
which obviously needs tons of
documentation, I don't think I've ever
used a GraphQL API from a company where
they built documentation from scratch.
I've never seen it,
they'll just say, go here.
Type in our URL into Apollo Studio,
there's your documentation.
You can see it all there, you can explore
it, you can do whatever you want.
There's no need for it, why would we write
documentation when it can be generated?
So that's the great part,
is like you just never see it.
You don't need documentation for it,
whereas with REST there's swagger.
There's people making their own stuff,
it gets it just gets complicated.
But for GraphQL, it's pretty much
standardized because this tool
works with any GraphQL schema,
period, so it just works.
Right, so let's go back to
the Explorer and let's run our query.
So I'm just gonna get rid of what I have
here, let's use this query Explorer.
So right now, you can see Root Type,
we have Query, Query here.
If you hit this + button,
it'll just add it for you.
It's very cool, and I only have one
field on the Query and it's called me.
We made it, so
I'm going to hit the + button on that.
And then because me is an object type,
it has to be expanded like this.
You see these objects,
these object brackets?
If I didn't put these object brackets,
I couldn't run this query.
If I just said, let me just do this.
You can see it's already erroring,
if I try to run this, it's gonna say no.
Field me of type Person must
have a selection of subfields.
Did you mean me, ?
It knows that me returns the person type
and the person type is an object type,
so what fields do you want on me?
Because it doesn't know, you have to be
very specific of what you're asking for.
Otherwise, you'll get this.
We did not write the code for
this input validation.
This was given to us for free because it's
looking at the rules of the schema, right?
And even our syntax highlighting,
is aware of that.
So we need to satisfy that constraint
by making the object type,
which still isn't enough.
They just disable the button,
no, that's not, [LAUGH].
You're not even gonna do it.
So, there's only one field we can ask for
and that's name.
So I could just click here and
it'll add name for me,
I could have just typed it out as well.
Then I run the Query and
we get Hello World.
So you might be asking,
where the hell does Hello World come from?
We didn't write that,
this is another cool feature of
GraphQL because everything is typed.
I can use this tool that will
mock out all the data for
my schema because it knows all
the types of all the fields.
So this tool takes our schema and
mocks out all the return values
without us having to write them.
Obviously, we don't want
that in production.
We're gonna use real data and talk to
a database and that's what you're gonna do
today, but just to prototype the schema
and get things going, it's great.
You can just mock this
schema out right here,
which is exactly what this code does.
It just looks at our GraphQL schema and
mocks out every single field on it,
given the type, because everything
resolves to a scholar at some point.
So it's just mocking out strings Integer,
Floats, Booleans, and IDs.
So those are just primitive types so
it can mock those out pretty effectively.
And that's where Hello World comes from,
that's this tool mocking it out.
You can give this tool other functions to
run to what mock data you want to return.
But at that point, you might also just
make real resolvers it might have been.
>> Scott Moss: Any questions so far?
If this is your first time experiencing
GraphQL on the server, you might have your
mind blown at this point just how free
we were able to get some of this stuff.
Cuz I know in REST,
you would not be here right now.
You might not ever get here,
this is like a dream.
You worked at a company that had something
like this built for their REST, API,
you're probably at a great company
cuz no one built stuff like this.
They just default to swagger API swagger,
API, and
I hate the way the look,
I hate how swagger looks.
I just cannot stand the way that it look.
It blows my mind that it's like still
looks like Bootstrap two or so.
I don't, I can't stand it.
But this right here just feels, you ever
tried to use something like Swagger or
any REST documentation and you wanna
actually run the route and it's just so
complicated.
You gotta click here,
then you gotta sign in sometimes.
And this is so complicated, I just want
to just try this thing out right quick.
And that's just so hard, but
with this, you just try it out.
You just run it right now, and we didn't
have to write any code for it, so
I think that's pretty impressive.